README.md, before:

# Rplanit

Radiotherapy with ion beams: planning, simulations and analysis

*Author*: Andrea Attili

*Maintainer*: Andrea Attili <attili@to.infn.it>

*Description*: A collection of methods and procedures to perform simulations and
analysis related to radiotherapy treatment planning (with ion beams). It includes a set
of radiobiological evaluations and display possibilities.


## Installation
Note: it is assumed that the camputer is connected to the web...

### Ubuntu (12.04 64bit)
* The following libraries need to be installed from the Ubuntu repository (from the terminal shell prompt):
```
$ sudo apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev
$ sudo apt-get install tk8.5-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2-dev
$ sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
$ sudo ln -s /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libcrypto.so.1.0.0 /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libcrypto.so.6
$ sudo ln -s /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.so.1.0.0 /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.so.6
$ sudo apt-get install libgsl0-dev
$ sudo apt-get install liblog4cxx10-dev
```
* Install the latest version of R (for Ubuntu 12.04) following the instruction at this [link](http://livesoncoffee.wordpress.com/2012/12/09/installing-r-on-ubuntu-12-04/).
* Optional (but recommended): install the latest version of RStudio from this [link](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

### Ubuntu (14.04 64bit)
* The following libraries need to be installed from the Ubuntu repository (from the terminal shell prompt):
```
$ sudo apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev
$ sudo apt-get install tk8.6-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2-dev
$ sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev
$ sudo apt-get install liblog4cxx10-dev
```
* Install the latest version of R (for Ubuntu 14.04) following the instruction at this [link](http://www.sysads.co.uk/2014/06/install-r-base-3-1-0-ubuntu-14-04/).
* Optional (but recommended): install the latest version of RStudio from this [link](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).


### Mac OSX (Darwin)
* Install Xcode and XQuartz from the Apple site.
* Install the GSL libraries form source ([instructions](http://www.brianomeara.info/tutorials/brownie/gsl)). Alternatively it should be possible to install the binaries using Mac Ports.
* Install the latest version of R from the official [web site](http://cran.rstudio.com/).
* Optional (but recommended): install the latest version of RStudio from this [link](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).


### Rplanit installation
* To install the _Rplanit_ package from github (from the R prompt):
```
> install.packages("devtools") # it needs to be done only once
> library(devtools)
> install_github("Rplanit", username="planit-group", dependencies=TRUE)
```
* To load the package:
```
> library(Rplanit)
```
* To install _Pure-dek_ (the Treatment Planning System kernel), _Gate_ (to perform Monte Carlo simulations) and _Survival_ (the code for the radiobiological simulations):
```
> install.puredek(<lincence number>) # please read the note below.
> install.gate()
> install.survival()
```
* To update everything to the latest version, the last commands should be runned again:
```
> install_github("Rplanit", username="planit-group", dependencies=TRUE)
> install.puredek(<lincence number>) # please read the note below.
> install.gate()
> install.survival()
> # et voila
```

#### Important Note
While _Rplanit_, _Gate_ and _Survivals_ are open-source, the TPS kernel, _Pure-dek_ is a fork of a previous kernel proprietary by INFN/IBA. To use it for research purposes please contact Andrea Attili (attili@to.infn.it).

Commit message:

Aggiunta funzione demo.puredek() per fare un check.

README.md, after:

# Rplanit

Radiotherapy with ion beams: planning, simulations and analysis

*Author*: Andrea Attili

*Maintainer*: Andrea Attili <attili@to.infn.it>

*Description*: A collection of methods andprocedures to perform simulations and
analysis related to radiotherapy treatment planning (with ion beams). It includes a set
of radiobiological evaluations and display possibilities.


## Installation
Note: it is assumed that the camputer is connected to the web...

### Ubuntu (12.04 64bit)
* The following libraries need to be installed from the Ubuntu repository (from the terminal shell prompt):
```
$ sudo apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev
$ sudo apt-get install tk8.5-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2-dev
$ sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
$ sudo ln -s /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libcrypto.so.1.0.0 /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libcrypto.so.6
$ sudo ln -s /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.so.1.0.0 /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libssl.so.6
$ sudo apt-get install libgsl0-dev
$ sudo apt-get install liblog4cxx10-dev
```
* Install the latest version of R (for Ubuntu 12.04) following the instruction at this [link](http://livesoncoffee.wordpress.com/2012/12/09/installing-r-on-ubuntu-12-04/).
* Optional (but recommended): install the latest version of RStudio from this [link](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

### Ubuntu (14.04 64bit)
* The following libraries need to be installed from the Ubuntu repository (from the terminal shell prompt):
```
$ sudo apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev
$ sudo apt-get install tk8.6-dev
$ sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2-dev
$ sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev
$ sudo apt-get install liblog4cxx10-dev
```
* Install the latest version of R (for Ubuntu 14.04) following the instruction at this [link](http://www.sysads.co.uk/2014/06/install-r-base-3-1-0-ubuntu-14-04/).
* Optional (but recommended): install the latest version of RStudio from this [link](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).


### Mac OSX (Darwin)
* Install Xcode and XQuartz from the Apple site.
* Install the GSL libraries form source ([instructions](http://www.brianomeara.info/tutorials/brownie/gsl)). Alternatively it should be possible to install the binaries using Mac Ports.
* Install the latest version of R from the official [web site](http://cran.rstudio.com/).
* Optional (but recommended): install the latest version of RStudio from this [link](http://www.rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).


### Rplanit installation
* To install the _Rplanit_ package from github (from the R prompt):
```
> install.packages("devtools") # it needs to be done only once
> library(devtools)
> install_github("Rplanit", username="planit-group", dependencies=TRUE)
```
* To load the package:
```
> library(Rplanit)
```
* To install _Pure-dek_ (the Treatment Planning System kernel), _Gate_ (to perform Monte Carlo simulations) and _Survival_ (the code for the radiobiological simulations):
```
> install.puredek(<lincence number>) # please read the note below.
> install.gate()
> install.survival()
```
* To update everything to the latest version, the last commands should be runned again:
```
> install_github("Rplanit", username="planit-group", dependencies=TRUE)
> install.puredek(<lincence number>) # please read the note below.
> install.gate()
> install.survival()
> # et voila
```

### Check
* To check that everything is working properly, run the following commands (from the R prompt)
```
> library(Rplanit) # to load the library, if not yet in memory.
> demo.puredek()
> demo.survival()
```

### Important Note
While _Rplanit_, _Gate_ and _Survivals_ are open-source, the TPS kernel, _Pure-dek_ is a fork of a previous kernel proprietary by INFN/IBA. To use it for research purposes please contact Andrea Attili (attili@to.infn.it).
